=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

Regexp::Common::VATIN - Patterns for matching EU VAT Identification Numbers

=head1 SYNOPSIS

    use Regexp::Common qw(VATIN);
    say "DE123456789" =~ $RE{VATIN}{DE};  # 1
    say "DE123456789" =~ $RE{VATIN}{any}; # 1
    say "LT123ABC"    =~ $RE{VATIN}{LT};  # ""

=head1 DESCRIPTION

This module provides regular expression patterns to match any of the sanctioned
VATIN formats from the 26 nations levying a European Union value added tax.

=head1 JAVASCRIPT

All patterns in this module are written to be compatible with JavaScript's
somewhat less-expressive regular expression standard. They can thus easily be
exported for use in a browser-facing web application:

    use JSON qw(encode_json);
    my $patterns = encode_json($RE{VATIN});

=head1 CAVEAT

In keeping with the standard set by the core L<Regexp::Common> modules, patterns
are neither anchored nor enclosed with word boundaries. Consider a malformed
VATIN, e.g.,

    my $vatin = "GB1234567890";

According to the sanctioned patterns from the United Kingdom, the above VATIN is
malformed (one digit too many). And yet,

    say $vatin =~ $RE{VATIN}{GB};     # 1

To test for an exact match, use start and end anchors:

    say $vatin =~ /^$RE{VATIN}{GB}$/; # ""

=head1 SEE ALSO

=over

=item L<Regexp::Common>

For documentation of the interface this set of regular expressions uses.

=item L<Business::Tax::VAT::Validation>

Checks the official EU database for registered VATINs.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

Richard Simões C<< <rsimoes AT cpan DOT org> >>

=head1 COPYRIGHT AND LICENSE

Copyright © 2013 Richard Simões. This module is released under the terms of the
B<MIT License> and may be modified and/or redistributed under the same or any
compatible license.
